okay so perhaps deep-frying a whole
chicken was a step too far
and what a hassle I've got a much
simpler way of browning the chicken
which I'll show you in a second but
first I wanted to pick up on that flavor
memory that I got from the motorway
service station in France that smell of
chicken roasted in butter it's just
incredible I've got here the wing tips
that I reserved from earlier I've
chopped them up just going to put them
in a pan with a good dollop of butter
get the pan on a high heat this is going
to take about five minutes and we've
going to cook this until the butter
starts sizzling it'll turn brown and
that combination of the nutty notes from
the butter turning brown and that smell
of the roasted chicken skin is just
going to be incredible so while that's
infusing I need to brown the chicken is
to get this pan nice and hot I'm going
to add some oil to the pan I've gone for
ground not oil because it's very pure
it's got no flavor as soon as that oils
hot we add the chicken he's very careful
now we're using this pan effectively as
a rotisserie the key here is to brown
the skin as quickly as possible we don't
want to cook any of the flesh underneath
I would advise using a set of tongs it's
much easier to turn the chicken also
that oil is hot so be very careful and
that's browning really quickly you can
see it's coming up with wonderful golden
color two minutes is about the most
efficient plate Limon I'm just going to
strain the chicken infused butter
okay there are wonderfully brown skin
that's gonna be so crisp as well so I
just want to serve two really simple
vegetables to go with this I've got a
couple of great techniques in here I've
got some carrots I'll put them in a pan
with butter salt and pepper and nothing
else
I've got no water in there cuz I don't
want any of the carrot flavor to be
diluted as the carrots cook the cell
walls begin to break down releasing both
moisture and flavor if these were cooked
in water more of this flavor will be
lost in here I've got some broccoli all
I've done with this is I've blanched it
for one minute plunged it into ice water
to stop cooking the minute blanching is
not long enough for any flavour to come
out I've just placed it in the pan with
some butter salt and pepper couple of
minutes reheating just before serving
and they'll be fantastic
[Music]
[Applause]
well that looks pretty good to me
there's one last thing that's gonna
finish this dish off it's this roasted
chicken flavored butter I've got a
baster a meat baster with a sharp end
you can see it's actually sucking the
bottom up
now I'm gonna use this to inject the
butter into the chicken all of those
juices are going to permeate the flesh
we've got the best of both worlds you've
got chicken that is so succulent it's
full of flavor and it's full of all of
the juices and then I've added the
roasted chicken flavored butter so it's
going to give it that extra dimension
now for me that is it my perfect roasted